# Task and config repository for `zbobr` tool

The [zbobr](https://github.com/milyin/zbobr/) orchectrator can

- read tasks in the github repository assigned to the `zbobr` using label
- solve task step by step by running different roles (planner, worker, reviewer, etc)
- make `PR` with the solution

This repository contains two separate things which are just convenient to keep in one place, but that's not necessary:

- Configuration files and prompts for `zbobr` instances, each in separate directory. Each instance targets only one repository.
- Github issues which are processed by these instances, the processing reports (in the separate branch in order not to interfere with config's history)

The `zbobr` assumes that `claude` and `copilot` are installed and logged in on the target machine. It's also possible to setup their login tokens in the configuration.

## Steps to configure the orchestrator

### Create github access token for task repository

`zbobr` uses two github tokens. First, in the `[tasks]` section is for reading/writing issues and corresponding reports

Create access token for giving zbobr access to the tasks (issues) repository. It will use it to read and modify the tasks and create reports in it. It also makes sense to use the same access token to pull the configuration and prompts from the repository.

- Open `Settings` -> `Developer Settings` -> `Personal access tokens` -> `Fine-grained tokens` -> button `Generate new token`
- Name the token, e.g. `zbobr-tasks`
- Set resource owner to correct organization. It's convenient to create dedicated organization for this instead of using own account
- Give access only to this repository for better safety
- Add the following permissions:
  - Issues: R/W
  - Contents: R/W
  - Workflows: R/W
  - Pull requests: R/W
- Store the token in the root .env file

### Clone `zbobr` and configs repository

The `zbobr` project is not published to crates.io yet, clone it from github to work

- clone `https://github.com/milyin/zbobr.git`
- clone this repository using task repository token created
- add task repository token to `.env` file

  ```sh
  git clone https://github.com/milyin/zbobr.git
  ```

  ```sh
  git clone https://USERNAME:TOKEN@github.com/milyin-zenoh-zbobr/tasks.git
  ```

  ```sh
  echo ZBOBR_TASK_GITHUB_TOKEN=TOKEN > .env
  echo ZBOBR_PROJ_TASKS_GITHUB_TOKEN=TOKEN >> .env
  ```

- Update base config and prompts with latest versions. Use `--force` flag for actual owerwrite, otherwise in case of difference the file `.new` will be created.

  ```sh
  ./zbobr.sh init base --force
  ```

  The root toml configs and the project specific configs overrides the settings from default `base/zbobr.toml`.

### Configure the instances

#### Configuration overview

The `zbobr` supports config overloading so it's convenient to place custom config to small patching config files, keeping the autogenerated default config unchanged and easily updatable. The following config files hierarchy is used in this setup:

- `zbobr.toml` - autogenerated config with default values
- `user.toml` - the specific user settings overriding the default config
- `proj.toml` - the repository settings for the task repository itsef. Used as template for project, but also can be used to run instance to process this repository.
- `<project>/z.toml` - the project-specific repository settings and overrides

#### Global configuration

Update `user.toml` : set your user name and email and author owerwrite rule if commits should be authored by this user instead of copilot or claude.

#### Instances configuration

Create project directory for instance to run.

- Create directory for new project. I.e. `foo`.
- Copy `proj.toml` to `foo`
- Setup the `proj.toml` for `foo`:

  - set unique `instance` name
  - set destination repository and branch
  - setup the token to access the repository:

    - use the same access rights as for task repository above, except "Issues"
    - Create corresponding environment vairable with token, add it to `.env` file

    ```sh
    echo ZBOBR_PROJ_FOO_GITHUB_TOKEN=TOKEN >> .env
    ```

- Override any global settings with project-specific ones: add or remove steps, prompts, tools, etc.

- Verify resulting configuration for instance with command

  ```sh
  ./zbobr_proj.sh foo config
  ```
  
  This command should show the actual config which is applied to the instance

- Setup the task repository for this project. It adds label with instance name to task repository. Issues with this label aret assigned to this instance.

  ```sh
  ./zbobr_proj.sh foo setup
  ```

  #### Executing the `zbobr` instance

  Run script `loop_proj.sh foo` where `foo` is the name of the project. This script takes the task ready to execution and processes one execution stage on it, then repeats.
